>> My name is Steve Parker.
I know that I caught you right after lunch
and just a little while before the beer bash,
but I think what I have is pretty exciting so I hope
it keeps your attention and keeps you interested.
In particular, I'm going to talk about
the general server performance results
in Snow Leopard which I think are outstanding.
I want to suggest some things that you can do to help plan
for and create a system that performs just as well as some
of the performance information
that I want to share with you.
And I am going to mention a couple of things that
are very important if you happen to be a developer,
and you're building a service that is
either large in scale or high performing.
And then finally, I'm going to spend a bunch of time talking
about how you evaluate the performance of your system,
how you identify bottlenecks and in general
how to make sure that it's performing its best.
So, let's begin with the server performance data, but I
want to start by talking a little bit about benchmarks
I'm about to present a bunch of benchmark data, how fast
does the system go, and in particular this is important
because we'd like our performance not to be a surprise.
We'd like to be able to know if I get this kind of a
system I can get this kind of performance out of it;
we'd like to be able to use that in planning as we
purchase our systems; and we also need to be able
to know when the performance is actually wrong.
When is it not performing as well as it should be.
So I'm going to start by talking
about a couple of SPEC results.
SPEC.org is an industry consortium
that does standardized benchmarking.
They write some really excellent benchmarks.
One of the ones that I'm going to talk about today is
SPECjbb2005; that's a general Java performance benchmark.
This is something that is based on an order
entry inventory system written entirely in Java.
They have chosen that the benchmark not actually utilize
any file systems so it runs entirely from in-memory tables;
and it basically scales up this order entry and inventory
system until at the end it finds the very peak level
of performance as it scales up threads in Java and so on--
the very peak performance that
you can get out of that engine.
So Snow Leopard with a combination of improvements to the OS
and the Java Virtual machine is
30% faster than it was in Leopard.
I think this is a really excellent result.
You might want to know how fast is your file system
so SPECsfs is actually a very long-standing benchmark;
it was originally only an NFS benchmark, and in particular
what it does is it simulates both NFS and Samba clients.
And the SPEC style is very carefully written
to simulate the real activity of users.
Sometimes you can build an artificial benchmark
that's like if I copy files how long does it take.
Well those benchmarks are usually
scripted and very sequential.
And in fact when you have a group of users using
a file server, their requests actually arrive
at a somewhat randomized interval to the server,
and that is a little more challenging load
than you sometimes see with a simple scripted test.
So SPECsfs is careful to simulate that behavior, it's a
metadata heavy benchmark, so it realizes that in fact a lot
of what you're doing is searching file trees, looking
things up; it does a combination of read and write.
It also makes sure that there is 120MB worth of
data behind every op/sec, so this is to make sure
that you've actually got a full size file tree;
because in fact if you're measuring a
large busy server it's not just going
to have a tiny number of files that might all get cached.
So this insures that there is a file tree that grows
in size, it reflects the real life behavior on disk.
If I look at my disk at the beginning of the day and I
look at it at the end there's always more data on it.
So the course of the run actually grows the data set.
And the other thing is because the goal of this
benchmark is to measure the server's performance,
it's careful to provide its own NFS and CIFS client code
so that it can make sure to do exactly the same thing.
Sometimes a client implementation can interact badly with
the server and can make it either look better or look worse.
So a combination of the K64 kernel, VM scalability, IP route
locking, work in Snow Leopard has increased this by well
over 2X for the Samba performance
which I think is outstanding.
NFS performance likewise is benefiting
from all those same things.
That one is a full 2X.
So, those are slightly simpler workloads.
Another key workload, some of you have
e-mail, yes, would be your mail server.
So the mail server, there is also
a SPEC benchmark, SPECmail 2009,
we've been very active in helping
SPEC develop this benchmark.
It does a sophisticated simulation of IMAP.
IMAP is a very complex protocol as some of you may know.
There are a lot of different ways
to accomplish the mail operations.
SPECmail has a huge array of these different ways of
doing things, and it balances a randomized distribution
across them all so that it simulates an average
amalgam of a wide variety of IMAP clients.
It tracks the message contents and makes sure to
keep in mind that some of the operations ought to be
against messages that have big attachments;
many of them are actually much smaller,
and those will have different performance properties.
So in Snow Leopard I'm pleased to announce that we
have posted a new world record in SPECmail 2009 wellsty lg
above the Sun Java messaging server so you can
treat us as a contender for mail performance.
I'm incredibly excited about that.
So, those are great results.
Let's talk however about how you actually get that
performance on your system; and first of all I do want
to start by acknowledging and talking a
little bit about benchmarking versus reality.
So a show of hands-- every one of you who has
ever once found that a benchmark suggested
that you could make a change and get a certain
performance gain and you got something different.
How many of you had that experience?
Right. So, one of the things that I am going to focus on in
this talk is how you do an evaluation that can be specific
to your system and your workload, and try and answer
questions about how much faster will my system be.
And if there's one thing that you take away from this talk,
it should be that this is an end to end system problem,
and it is necessary to make sure that all of the plumbing
for whatever services you are providing
are really up to snuff.
And the way I like to think about it is we are
in this world that is filled with incredibly fast
and powerful multicore CPUs; and they are connected by what
are by and large small pipes to the network and to the disks
of system; and it is getting this balance
of how your workload needs to flow
across all of those things that's necessary.
If you set it up so that you have too small a pipe, which
you end up having is that the flow of your requests backs up
and that is what you have to try and work to avoid.
What you really need to do is make sure that there are
parallel paths adequate for the network and the disk paired
to the system that you're using
and the workload that you have
So let's talk a little bit about this NFS score.
So it is absolutely a disk bottleneck benchmark,
and in fact there's a whole lot of extra CPU power.
If I add more disks, I can probably get a higher score.
That's what we did.
That is still a really great example of
the incredible speed that's available,
but one of the things that you should definitely
take away if you go and look for example on SPEC.org
at that publication and it lists this
big pile of Fibre Channel storage.
That's a key part of achieving that benchmark score.
So keep in mind that these SPEC Postings are
what I like to call the "Speed of Light".
If I tune this all the way up, if I get the
biggest and best, what can I do with it?
So in this particular case, it really
is that array of 64 15K SAS drives,
there is 8 megabytes' worth of
battery-backed RAM caching it.
In fact a lot of disk I/OS are actually only taking
100 microseconds from the point of view of the server
because it's delivered to the RAM in the Promise unit.
The Promise unit makes sure that there are redundant
copies and two sets of RAM and then it writes back
across the Fibre Channels that it's good to go.
So that's really important to providing
that level of service.
However, that's not for free.
That's $80K worth of disk drives.
So how many people actually have a
system with that many drives connected?
Wow, all right.
Wow. OK. Excellent.
So I'm kind of surprised.
I think the majority of people though-- how many of you
have nothing but a SATA drive internal in your equipment?
Internal Ray, OK.
So, the other thing that you'll notice in that posting,
I use 32 separate HFS+2 file systems across that array.
It turns out that's also important and
I'm going to talk about that later on.
If you are actually going to get that performance level
though, you are going to need to do all of those things
to plan for getting the storage adequate behind that.
Well, so, if you haven't got the $80K worth of disks behind
it, you might be asking why is this actually good news?
Well, the really good news about it is that this is an
indication of the ability for the server to scale up.
So it's telling you that the plumbing that the OS
underneath it, that the systems services are able to have--
it turns out during the peak of that run there are
10's of thousands of I/Os in parallel for example.
There are paths capable of handling
really large volumes of data.
That particular set of postings is using 8 gigabit NICs.
And is driving at peak 840 megabytes
of Random I/O to that array.
So the good news about that is that you do
have this big multicore chip that does a lot.
Unfortunately back in Leopard, you were only able to
put some of the cores to work in some important areas.
What's different is that all those cores are now available
and if you are not in a position to be driving this
to that kind of level, then you should be considering
putting a lot more than just NFS on this box.
You should be running some web services; you
should be running maybe Wikis, Podcast Producer,
but in general all of those workloads will
operate in parallel because this is just available
and spare machine capacity; and there were a number
of limitations in Leopard that did not allow you
to get at that especially for server workloads.
So the good news is that where you
might have in the past used a server
for a single purpose, that's no longer necessary.
So, definitely understand that all of the
focus that I've given on disk performance is
because the CPUs have gotten faster and faster, sort of
Moore's law kind of every three years or so twice as fast,
the clock speed 's not faster now, now we're
adding more cores but it's still going faster.
However, you definitely do need to pay attention to
disk storage which has not gotten that much faster.
And keep in mind that all of those factors
that I've mentioned are absolutely
necessary for that level of performance.
So now I want to drop it back, however, and I want to talk
about what I think is actually a little more common scenario
which is I've just got a SATA drive,
maybe some hardware RAID.
So to put it in perspective, you should be
expecting to be like 1/40th of that score.
It is definitely going to go a lot slower and that
will be because the disks of system can't carry it.
Now, a lot of us do have it because
we care about having a lot of bytes.
My MP3 collection doesn't get any smaller; I'll be yours
doesn't, and neither does the data in your Data Center,
and that is a lot less than 1/40th of the
cost@-- it's about 1/400th of the cost.
So but keep in mind those differences and design for it.
How many of you use RAID5 underneath your storage?
Lots of people.
So the slowest of those options that I listed is RAID5.
RAID5 is requiring that I actually lay down three
different stripes of the data so I get the reliability.
That means that it's not actually delivering additional
speed; so this chart is intended to give you a sort
of a reference for that general difference between
what you can achieve like in a single Xserve
with traditional drive technology and all
of that is still definitely at at least 10%
of that score against the Promise Fibre Channel array.
So, I have several slides here that I definitely
recommend that after the conference you pick up my slides.
These are reference information that I think you'll find
very handy because it breaks down what these choices are,
and I'm not going to go through them in
great detail, but it's pretty simple.
At the 1 to 3 terabyte range you do still have
the option of simply SATA and SAS drive modules.
If you need very large data sets you're going to be on Fibre
Channel anyway, and keep in mind that those are in order
of speed so each one of the steps you take down that list,
that's providing you a significant jump up in performance.
Now before I go through two other sets of important
tables about disk drive choices, I want to take a second
and talk about what the really tough
challenge is around files systems and storage;
and it's a big mouthful of geek
speak-- Metadata Rate of Change.
So, what do I mean by Metadata Rate of Change?
Well, anything that creates, removes, renames
a file, ownership, permissions or attributes,
all of those things require synchronous round trips to the
disk, and that volume has to basically stop other people
who have updates to that file system, until
that change is committed, reliably to the disk.
So, for example on HFS+, it needs to rebalance the
B-tree if you've done a rename, create, delete,
changes need to be committed to its journal, that's a
synchronous operation, and it has a single catalog file
that has to be updated when the volume
is changed in these significant ways.
Now, this is the opposite of the data inside the user file.
So none of those things are actually
requiring me to stop other threads of work.
So this is one of the reasons why I
mentioned that I use 32 separate HFS+ volumes.
So the reason was I got the Metadata Rate of Change of the
system higher; and you should definitely keep that in mind
as you lay out volumes and choose your technology.
So in this particular case I wanted to
highlight that between HFS+ and Xsan,
you should keep in mind some of the difference choices.
One of the things the Xsan is fabulous at, if you have
files that tend to be only accessed by a particular client,
it can deliver incredible bandwidth,
incredible read and write speed.
On the other hand, HFS+ will work particularly well if
many different processes on a single system are sharing it,
and it will use RAM as a cache to help
prevent your needing to go to disk,
and definitely both of them do have
reasonably good data write and data read rates.
But now what I want to do is I want to pull it all back
in to what you actually do and what you actually set up.
That was all abstract about disks
and technologies, yes whatever.
So, what I have done here is sort of connect
those different things and brought back
down to particular services a set
of specific recommendations.
So for example, Web service is
actually a very low disk load service;
that's something where if all you have is
a built-in SATA drive that's not a problem;
mail like file services are at the other end.
Those are areas where if you're
doing a high performance system,
you definitely need to consider
something like Fibre Channel solutions.
So, the details again will be available
in slides after the conference.
Definitely pick that stuff up and keep it handy.
It will help you to plan for how to get
a system that scales and performs well.
All right so I've talked about how fast it
goes; I've talked about the things that you need
to be thinking about in planning for performance.
Now I want to talk about how you create
services that are going to go fast.
So this is really absolutely targeted
for the developers in the audience.
So, in particular the three areas that I'm going to talk
about-- the first is if you are using select and poll,
and if you are using more than 100 or so files-- don't.
Give it up, switch to kqueue.
Select and poll are at best O of N algorithms.
They will never scale; kqueue is an O of 1 interface,
it's an interface which is also incredibly convenient
because you simply create one descriptor
for all the activities of the service,
and you just collect events back
with kevent off that service.
It can give you a handle that points in to a record
of your choosing that helps drive the service;
so for example if I'm writing an IMAP server,
in fact Dovecot uses this, it calls kevent,
kevent returns a file descriptor and a
pointer to information about the IMAP session.
And in fact that mail score would probably be 1/3 of
what it is if all I did was to switch back to select.
It is a significant factor-- don't do it.
You've got a better interface-- use it.
Resource Limits-- services launched by
launchd and I do encourage you to look
into launchd, it's very easy to use, very powerful.
By setting up the plist for your service you can
help launchd do its job of playing traffic cop.
So one of the aspects of traffic cop is to
protect the system from a runaway process,
from a process that has actually failed in some way and is
effectively its own denial of service attack on your system.
And in particular, it will allow you to set this
variety of resources; but in particular pay attention
to the largest file size and open files at peak those
are the two that I see services most often get wrong.
If you're going to have a large number of open files,
nominate how many you want, get
yourself launched from launchd.
I definitely encourage you to look into that and use that.
One of the things which is improved in Snow Leopard,
if you are launched from launchd there is a new
higher listen queue depth; listen queue is important
for that Thursday after lunch when
everyone hits refresh on their browser
and in particular what it does is it makes sure
that spikes in traffic are dealt with smoothly.
And it does that by making sure that the
kernel doesn't simply drop a connection
because the service is ramping itself back
up and doesn't respond quickly enough.
And in particular that is very common
because Apache for example is going
to scale itself way down if there's no activity.
It takes a little while for it to ramp up and have
enough daemons available to answer connections;
and it may be spawning that process but you
still want a response back to the client
that lets the client know the server
is coming with a response.
So, those were the three specific recommendations I really
wanted to make for our developers so now I want to turn
to the final point which was the section
on Diagnosing Performance Problems.
If you haven't hit the speed of light, why not?
So I wanted to begin by showing you these two graphs and
these two graphs are server performance in a nutshell
Basically, pretty much every server performance
problem has these two graphs that are key
to the understanding how the workload
behaves and how you study it.
And in particular, the thing to notice here is
that most server workloads which are composed
of relatively small amounts of work but lots of clients,
lots of separate requests is that it steps up in a more
or less linear fashion until it hits the
system peak; and it should do so linearly
so if you have this much additional client
load, you should see this much additional CPU,
this much additional network traffic,
this much additional disk I/O.
That general guideline is that first level of
triage to understanding how the system is behaving;
and finally the other thing to be aware of is that
once you've reached the point where you're presenting
as much load as the system has capacity for, you want
to pay attention to how it falls off in overload.
You hope it falls off in the manner that I've graphed here.
If the system is badly behaved, if it has scalability
difficulties, that curve will drop back down.
So you want to keep in mind that as
increments of client load are added
that you should see equivalent increments,
proportional increments in throughput.
So a similar evaluation, it's basically
like two sides of the same coin really,
is the latency of these different operations.
And the general curve for most all
server benchmarks looks like this.
So the latency is constant under low
load so what might be a good example?
I'm perhaps logging into a secure web page so I connect
to the web server, I provide it some credentials,
it does some processing, it sends it back.
So that takes a certain length of time and no matter
whether I've got 16 cores or a little Mac mini,
there's a certain amount of time that's going to take.
Now on my server machine as I add more of those,
they probably are going to get separate cores,
they're going to run in parallel and I'm not actually
going to see the latency increase until I hit the peak.
So when I hit the peak what's going to happen
is that there now in the example I mentioned,
there now isn't going to be any available CPU to immediately
run this request; so the latency is going to be the latency
of queuing for whatever resource is being contended here.
And that latency is basically-- you're just going
to continue in overload also in a linear fashion.
So why are these graphs important?
These graphs are important to understand because if you've
got say a lab or you're providing AFP to your customers,
what you're looking for is where that peak is.
That is the point at which the system is
going to go non-linear and some resource
or other is no longer available adequately.
How many of you came to my talk last year?
A few of you?
So in that talk last year I introduced a tool that
will be available as part of the session materials,
probably later this afternoon but no later than tomorrow.
And it's something that we use in-house all the time because
it gives us the network, the CPU and the disk utilization
at a glance; it allows me to break down whether my CPU has
headroom, whether or not my network traffic is peaked out,
have I reached 940 megabits a second out that 1
gigabit NIC, because if I have that's a problem
and I've hit the peak point; and I would be identifying
network reconfiguration to improve that performance.
So I will be demonstrating this tool in our lab afterwards
as well as a bunch of the rest of these techniques,
and will be happy to go into very specific examples
about how you use this, exactly what you're looking for.
But basically what you want to do is you want to be looking
at that information for your server, and in particular,
what you want to do is look for those opportunities
when you can measure the system at different loads
and do that same attempt-- see where it fits on that graph.
And in particular, the example that I've got
here would be if you find this opportunity
where you can identify I've got 200 AFP clients and I've hit
60% CPU, and I'm wondering wow you know how is that doing?
The best thing that you can do is to save
that data off, look for an opportunity
when perhaps there are 50 more clients connected
and doing work, and then repeat that measurement.
And what I've done with the math in there
is to look for whether or not it was linear.
And in fact what I see in that example is it's gone
non-linear, and that would tell me that I should be looking
for lock-thrashing; that something in the
system is preventing using the CPU effectively,
and that is my bottleneck.
So also from last year's talk there is a KBase
article HT1992, which is a great place to start.
Not only does it have a version of the top-guide script
there for Leopard as well, it has a breakdown of some
of these different areas; in particular in the case of
CPU bottlenecks, there's a list of three techniques.
One is using DTrace plockstat providers.
Did any of you go to the first talk on advanced
debugging and performance this morning?
OK somebody.
So those DTrace providers are excellent
ways to get an insight
to whether there are kernel resources being
contended that are preventing CPU scalability.
And there are a couple of scripts
attached to that KBase article.
In addition the plockstat -C, that is a
DTrace based command that will tell you
if a pthread synchronization thrashing is happening
in a process; it also talks in a little more detail
than I can cover today about evaluating network
traffic making sure that you've actually stayed
within both packet count and data rate limits,
as well as talking a little bit about disk I/O.
Disk I/O is a little bit harder to evaluate directly, but
I am going to talk about some very specific techniques
that you can use to try and identify whether or
not a disk I/O bottleneck is actually present.
So, just briefly plockstat -C output gives you information
on pthread mutex blocks, reader or writer blocks for read
as well as reader writer blocks for write.
If you're a developer this means that
it can actually give you an insight
into whether your application is multithreaded well
and using the pthread synchronization primitives well.
And the other thing is that count field-- what that
is giving you is the number of times when you went
after a lock, you were blocked from getting the lock
because some other thread owned it, and one of the beauties
of running plockstat in this fashion is zero overhead.
Many times an instrumentation methodology
will have overhead that affects the behavior.
This has zero overhead unless you
were actually blocking on a mutex.
That is the only overhead for this DTrace-based primitive.
So those are the three methods for going
after when the CPU might be a bottleneck.
One of the other cute tricks that I wanted to show
you so I talked about HFS+ and metadata updates,
so in particular you can also use DTrace in a clever
way to find out if the journal on HFS+ is overloaded.
So the mtxheat.dscript that is part of that KBase
article, it turns out that there's one particular path--
this is showing a stack backtrace inside the kernel,
and when you see that journal start transaction,
that specifically means that you are seeing another process
being blocked because someone is doing a journal update.
So that only becomes a relatively common
occurrence when you have overloaded a volume.
The address of the lock which is printed by the
script there actually correlates to a specific volume,
and in the lab I'll show you how you can identify
the specific volume that is associated with that.
And that number that's being recorded at the
bottom that is the number of times per second;
so that particular sample 179 times
someone couldn't request a journal I/O
because the journal was locked for a current write.
That is a file system constrained
performance problem right there-- that's bad.
Too big a number.
All right so per volume disk usage is also available.
This is also a DTrace-based tool,
iopending and it's in all 10 server systems,
and it's telling you how deep is the disk queue?
How many of you are familiar with
the concept of load average?
Yes. So that's essentially how many processes
are waiting to be scheduled on the CPU.
This is telling you the exact same thing.
This is telling you how deep is the disk queue here,
and with the minus -m option you're able to focus it
on a specific volume which is also very handy; because
it allows you to look at the configuration of your system
and perhaps you can identify a way to partition
your workload, partition your data sets
so that you get a more effective
use of your disk subsystems.
So in this particular case this is actually a pretty good
curve because we see that the distribution is normally
about zero so that means that most of
the time the disk controller is idle
and ready to accept a command for that disk.
If it were up around sort of 3 that would be a
little bit warm, and if it were say, up around 5,
6 or it can get much higher that would
definitely mean you are disk constrained.
So that is a way to look per volume at whether
or not your disk I/O is performing well.
In addition that disk_r and disk_w are an indication of
the amount of the activity that is read or write and notice
that in this particular case it was entirely write activity.
It was with single 4K read so.
All right.
So another thing that you can do that's
actually really easy is check whether
or not Spotlight is an impact on your system performance.
So it does keep an index, it's maintained on the fly,
and in particular if you do have a very write-heavy load,
that may end up being a performance difficulty.
In particular you can watch for mds or md importer
processes using ps or top; if they have a significant amount
of CPU usage, then it would probably
be a good idea to try this technique.
And I find the easiest one is to just throw the big switch.
So that command just stops it, and so if you're running
top-guide in one window and you throw the switch,
if you don't see a reduction in CPU and perhaps
disk I/O then Spotlight is not impacting you.
In that case, turn it back on.
That's not a performance problem in that case.
In addition, if it turns out that
that was a performance problem;
one thing that you can do is to
perhaps by volume disable Spotlight.
Perhaps you can identify that certain volumes
it's less critical, they have high write activity,
and you can simply disable it on that volume.
In addition, Spotlight is able to be turned on and off
per file name or per-node as I phrase it in the slide.
So basically if you have a directory fu and you create a
fu.noindex right beside it, Spotlight will leave it alone.
So if you have specific directories that don't
need to be indexed that would not be value add,
that would be the way to let Spotlight know.
OK so for more information Mark Malone is our Evangelist.
Again the KBase article is excellent as well as DTrace.